{% extends 'base.html' %}

{% block header %}
<h1>{% block title %}Town Hall{% endblock  title %}</h1>
{% endblock header %}

{% block content %}
<hr>
<p class="lead">Jade's summary of the May 9, 2019 town hall meeting:</p>
{% filter markdown %}
Thank you for inviting me to the town hall meeting last night. It was very informative and helpful to know ways to improve the program and your experiences as students. Here is my summary of your concerns and the information/updates that I have on them. If I have missed anything or misunderstood the concern, please let me know. I apologize in advance for the lengthy email.

## Stipend increase
- There is need to increase the stipend to at least $33k, but preferably $34k.
  * The steering committee already approved to increase to $33k, but faculty still need to vote. 
  * Dr Bafna has already started the discussion to increase to $34k however. I will keep you updated. 

## Transparency with funding
- Clearer appointment letters showing funding sources
  * Students can always view their support letters in the student portal, and should do so regularly. 
    - I can send reminders on this periodically if you'd like. 
  * 1st year students are either supported by the program or by the training grant. Those on the training grant should know this because they are directed to create ERA Common accounts.
  * 2nd year students are either supported by a PI or by the training grant. Generally speaking, students are titled as trainees or as GSRs (Graduate Student Researchers)
    - Those reappointed to the training grant should know this because they are again directed to their ERA Common account. 
    - Those that are not reappointed are asked to come to the office to complete new hire paperwork. This means you are transitioning to a GSR from being a trainee.  
    - If supported by the PI, we are only told an index (aka account number) to use. You should speak with your PI and/or their fund manager for more specifics on the type of funding they are using to support you.
  * 3rd year and beyond are generally supported by a PI. This generally means you are titled as a GSR.
- Clearer understanding of training grant appointments and how/why students are chosen
  * The program directors and co-PIs listed on the grant make these decisions usually early September, once the university has shared their allotment information with us. There are many factors in deciding between students, including previous academic performance.
- Conference attendance and costs
  * The training grant does provide funding to send the assigned trainees to conferences. We are currently in the process of assigning those trainees to the wish list of conferences provided by Dana. 
  * The program does not cover the costs of sending students not on the training grant to conferences unfortunately. This is because the program also does not support student funding after the 1st year. However, it should be encouraged that you speak to your PIs about any options they may have to support this. The funding resources they are using to support you may also allocate specific funding for conferences/training. 
  * I am making note that more discussion of finding ways to support all students to attend conferences should be had. 

## Website overall
- I just want to say that I wholeheartedly agree with the need for not only a revamp, but clearer verbiage in some areas. As someone who has zero scientific background and trying to learn this role as I go, I rely on the website as much as you do! As I said in the meeting this has been on my mind since I started, but the timing of being able to focus on it is just now coming around. Thank you for bringing this back to a priority.
- I am currently checking into the process to have the website move under the JSOE umbrella, similar to Bioengineering. I think Niema's offer to build a new website is great for the short term, but ultimately we need to have the website supported by the school and not a student/graduate. I will keep you posted, as my supervisor is currently checking into who to tap into for this project. Regardless, I want to continue discussing your ideas for improvement. More on this information gathering process will come. 
- I am also checking into forming a committee with the leadership to help facilitate this process and keep the project on task. 
- Current list of areas of improvements:
  * Policies and procedures for requirements such as qual exams, TAships, rotations, etc
  * Updated faculty lists and students lists
  * More sample schedules
  * Comprehensive electives list to include those that are typically approved by petition
    - As I said in the meeting, send me your petitions even if you are not sure! If enough students express interest in a particular class, it may end up on the approved elective list. 
    - A suggestion of using advisors to help advocate for the petition of certain classes may be a useful strategy as well. Please take advantage of this idea. 
  * More news about student accomplishments
    - Feel free to send me these updates! I can help make sure they get posted the website.

## Conflict resolution training
- To better help me understand where the need is and how to improve this area, I am hoping to gather some examples of concerns. Please use [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Yq9yDuym2Ru7VLpi47h2n0UmJRjb90jMBBEHB94vw20/edit) to **anonymously** submit your specific examples and feedback on areas of conflict that you may have experienced. I am always available if you would like to speak to me in person, please just reach out!  

## Mental health support
- Currently CAPS is the only resource for students on campus. As you reported though, they do not have enough staff to support the need, so this is an area to explore. I have heard that they are looking to partner with the medical side to broaden their support, I will keep you updated of any updates I hear on that. 
- I do see several [mini-workshops](https://wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPS/resources/by-group/Pages/grad.aspx) that they offer online. I would suggest at least checking these out as a starting point. There is also information groups and workshops they provide each quarter as well. 
- I can request customized workshops for you as well. Again, please use [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Yq9yDuym2Ru7VLpi47h2n0UmJRjb90jMBBEHB94vw20/edit) to **anonymously** submit your specific areas of need so I can submit a request appropriate for you. These responses can also help facilitate discussion of other ways to support your mental health outside of CAPS, such as how to improve support from faculty and the department.

## Curricular changes
- Orientation course similar to BGGN 200 is desired
  * I am checking into this and what options we might have
- Challenges with CSE 101 enrollment
  * I am checking to see if there is an alternate class to be used in place of CSE 101
- Qual exams confusion from students and faculty
  * We will explore if there is a better way to assign committee members.
  * We will improve the communication on this process outside of the website.
- Program retreats
  * From what I understand of this, is you are looking for ways to connect with faculty and understand more about their research. This would help you in choosing PIs and rotation advisors.
    - I don't know that the program can support the costs of a retreat, but I am going to explore other ways to create this interaction.
    - One suggestion was faculty sponsored social events. Perhaps this could be a good alternative. Dr Gaasterland mentioned she has access to locations for events in Del Mar.
    - If I am off base in this summary, please let me know!

## Outreach/Diversity/Other
- Form an outreach committee
  * Is this something GBIC can do?
  * If not, send me your ideas of how this would look. You can use [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Yq9yDuym2Ru7VLpi47h2n0UmJRjb90jMBBEHB94vw20/edit) to anonymously submit your ideas.
- Provide URMs and/or students who are out of state a relocation stipend with their offer package
  * This will need greater discussion with the program chairs and faculty
- Fellowship matches
  * This will need greater discussion with the program chairs and faculty

I want to reiterate that I am here to advocate for you, so please reach out at any time with questions, concerns, suggestions, feedback, etc. There are items that may concern you that I may already be working on and I'd be happy to share any updates I have. As I mentioned yesterday, I have started a lot of conversations (and send A LOT of emails) for areas that I think need clarifying so there is a lot in the works overall. While I can't promise immediate answers all the time, I am working hard to make the improvements. 
{% endfilter %}
{% endblock %}
